https://fundingsage.com/150-startup-acronyms-entrepreneurs-teams/
https://siliconprairienews.com/2018/08/spn-top-10-startup-acronyms-you-need-to-know/


10. MoM or WoW or YoY
The “o” stands for over.  These are terms that reference a period of time as a comparison group for growth.  Month over Month. Week over Week (you should be so lucky). Year over Year. These terms are often written rather than spoken – so your “mom” is the woman who birthed/raised you.  Your MoM growth is your month over month growth – and is written.

9. GtM
Go to Market.  This is a description of strategy – and again this is usually written.  A GtM is usually how a company intends to enter the market, i.e. what marketing strategy is going to lead to which new customers signing up (and paying).

8. CRM
CRM means customer relationship management and is usually followed by software.  Like other types of enterprise software (for example, ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning), BI (Business Intelligence), etc.) CRM software is a productivity software that is utilized by companies to keep track of their customer relationships.  Often this software doubles as software that tracks potential customers and people that are in a sales campaign (often called leads).

7. Saas
SaaS (Software as a Service) – pronounced like “sass”.  SaaS software and its brethren (Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS)) are tools that are usually built online and paid in a recurring fashion (often monthly).  Examples of SaaS platforms include Microsoft Office 365 and most CRM software platforms.

6. VC
VC is tricky because it means a class of people – venture capitalists or and individual within the class of people – an individual venture capitalist – or it could mean the firm that represents this group – as in a VC firm, shortened to just VC.  In many ways this reminds us of LOL which almost always means “laughing out loud” but in rare cases has been shortened by an elder to “lots of love”. While not generally confusing, VC has a variety of meanings that shift around subtly and so it is important to track all iterations.

5. ARR
Annual recurring revenue and its close cousin MRR – monthly recurring revenue also can be a little tricky.  The same acronym ARR can mean annual run rate (or in some weird finance instances Annual Rate of Return) – and this is not the same thing as recurring revenue.  Annual recurring revenue means revenue that is signed up to recur every year. So, for example, I might sell a SaaS product to a client that auto-renews a year from now.  This would be considered ARR (annual recurring revenue). Here’s where this gets tricky my run rate is derived from my MRR (monthly recurring revenue) – but it is a forecasted amount based on my current amount today and my projection of that growth continuing.  This is very different – one is based on annual contracts and one is based on forecasts of growth.

4. CAC
Customer Acquisition Costs – pronounced “kak” like “hack” but with a “k” sound. Acquiring customers is critical to any startup, but understanding how (which channels) and at what price (which is what the CAC is used to abbreviate) the customer is being acquired is really important.  This number can be hard for certain types of companies to calculate – but generally it is total acquisition costs (generally marketing and sales expenses (minus discounts)) divided by the number of new customers. This allows a firm to understand its unit value.

3. LTV
Lifetime Value – many firms have clients that will pay for a period of time and then leave (called churn in many software industries).  Understanding the length of time that an average customer stays with a firm and what the average customer spends per month (or year) allows the firm to create a lifetime value calculation.  This is very useful for companies that have regular churn levels because it isolates the length of time and the unit metrics for a specific customer.

2. ARPU
Average Revenue Per Unit.  This is a critical one and is related to other unit measurements but it essentially measures the average price paid by customers against the number of things that they are buying.  Particularly for companies that are selling products, ARPU is a great way to keep track of customer trends and product related pieces. For example, let’s imagine that I run an e-commerce site that sells shoes.  I sell a $50 pair and a $100 pair – my revenue is $150, and my ARPU is $75. Whereas if I sell 50 $1 pairs and 1 $100 pair, my revenue is still $150, but now my ARPU is $2.94. These are very different businesses.  This unit measurement is a great way to understand a firm’s financial tension between commodity and specialized.

1. IRS
Internal Revenue Service.  Pay your taxes, kids. This probably is a no brainer for many experienced entrepreneurs and business people, but there exist folks that do not know what the IRS is and how it affects their business.  Simply put, the number one most important thing to do in business is to sell something to customers…and often that creates a tax liability owed to the IRS or the equivalent department in your state (in Iowa and Nebraska, it is the Department of Revenue or “DOR”).


Entrepreneur Acronyms
ACA – Angel Capital Association
ACCT – Account
ACRS – Accelerated Cost Recovery System
ADR – American Depositary Receipt
AMT – Alternative Minimum Tax
AP – Accounts Payable
API – Application Programming Interface
AR – Accounts Receivable
ARC – African Regional Conference
ARC – Appalachian Regional Council
ARR – Annual Recurring Revenue
ARR – Annual Run Rate
ASP – Application Service Provider
ATDC – Advanced Technology Development Center
AUM – Assets Under Management
B2B – Business to Business
B2C – Business to Consumer
BDC – Business Development Company
BHAG – Big Hairy Audacious Goal
BOD – Board of Directors
BR – Bounce Rate
BS – Balance Sheet
CAC – Customer Acquisition Cost
CAGR – Compound Annual Growth Rate
CAPEX – Capital Expenditures
CAO – Chief Analytics Officer
CEO – Chief Executive Officer
CfIRA – Crowdfunding Intermediary Regulatory Advocates
CFO – Chief Financial Officer
CFP – Certified Financial Planner
CfPA – Crowdfunding Professional Association
CIO – Chief Information Officer
CLTV – Customer Lifetime Value
CMO – Chief Marketing Officer
CMS – Content Management System
COB – Close of Business
COGS – Cost of Goods Sold
COO – Chief Operating Officer
CPA – Cost per Acquisition
CPA – Certified Public Accountant
CPC – Cost per Click
CPC – Cost per Conversion
CPL – Cost per Lead
CPU – Central Processing Unit
CPU – Cost per Unit
CR – Conversion Rate
CR – Credit
CRM – Customer Relationship Management
CSO – Chief Security Officer
CT – Cap Table
CTA – Call to Action
CTO – Chief technology Officer
CTR – Click-through Rate
D&O Insurance – Directors and Officers Insurance
DD – Due Diligence
DNS – Domain Name Server
DR – Debit
EBAN – European Business Angels Network
EBITDA – Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization
EIN – Employer Identification Number
EOD – End of Day
EPS – Earnings per Share
ERISA – Employee Retirement Income Security Act
ESOP – Employee Stock Option Plan
EV – Enterprise Value
FEIN – Federal Employer Identification Number
FIFO – First In First Out
FFF – Friends & Family Round
FMA – First Mover Advantage
FTE – Full Time Employee
FY – Fiscal Year
GA – Google Analytics
GAAP – Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GEW – Global Entrepreneurship Week
GMV – Gross Merchandise Value
GP – General Partner
HR – Human Relations
HTML – Hyper-text Markup Language
IM – Instant Messaging
IPO – Initial Public Offering
IRA – Individual Retirement Account
IRR – Internal Rate of Return
IP Address – Internet Protocol Address
ISP – Internet Service Provider
JOBS – Jumpstart our Business Startups Act
KISS – Keep it Simple Stupid
KPI – Key Performance Indicator
LBO – Leveraged Buyout
LIFI – Last In First Out
LLC – Limited Liability Company
LP – Limited Partner
LTM – Last Twelve Months
LTV – Lifetime Value
MBI – Management Buy-in
MBO – Management Buyout
MESBIC – Minority Enterprise Small Business Investment Companies
MF – Management Fee
MoM – Month over Month
MRR – Monthly Recurring Revenue
MSP – Multi-sided Platform
MVP – Minimal Viable Product
NASD – National Association of Securities Dealers
NACO – National Angel Capital Association
NAV – Net Asset Value
NDA – Non Disclosure Agreement
NPV – Net Present Value
NYSE – New York Stock Exchange
OOO – Out of Office
OS – Operating System
OTC – Over the Counter
PaaS – Platform as a Service
P&L – Profit and Loss Statement
PIK – Payments in Kind
PIPE – Private Investment for Public Equity
PIV – Pooled Investment Vehicle
PM – Project Manager
PMF – Product Market Fit
POC – Proof of Concept
PPC – Pay per Click
PR – Public Relations
PTE – Part-time Employee
PTO – Paid Time Off
PV – Page View
QA – Quality Assurance
QPAM – Qualified Professional Asset Manager
QoQ – Quarter over Quarter
R&D – Research and Development
RAM – Random Access Memory
ROA – Return on Assets
ROE – Return on Equity
ROFR – Right of First Refusal
ROI – Return on Investment
ROR – Ruby on Rails
SaaS – Software as a Service
SAFE – Simple Agreement for Future Equity
SBA – Small Business Administration
SBIC – Small Business Investment Company
SBIR – Small Business Innovation Research Program
SCCE – Society for Corporate Compliance and Ethics
SEC – Securities and Exchange Commission
SEO – Search Engine Optimization
SEM – Search Engine Marketing
SHA – Shareholders Agreement
SM – Servicemark
SM – Social Media
SMB – Small to Medium Business
SMM – Social Media Marketing
SPAC – Specified Purpose Acquisition Company
STTR – Small Business Technology Transfer Program
SWOT – Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats Analysis
TM – Trademark
TS – Term Sheet
UI – User Interface
ULPA – Uniform Limited Partnership Act
URL – Universal Resource Manager
USPTO – United States Patent & Trademark office
UV – Unique Visitor
UX – User Experience
VC – Venture Capital / Venture Capitalist
VPN – Virtual Private Network
WOM – Word of Mouth
WoW – Week over Week
YoY – Year over Year
YTD – Year to date
